Edit README (#1)
gambe-ro/lobsters: README.md

# Gambe.ro

> [gambe.ro](https://www.gambe.ro) is an italian lobste.rs clone. We aim to build a strong community of italian programmers where constructive discussions can take place.

Reviewer: clone mi sembra una parola inadatta. Piuttosto qualcosa tipo "is an italian community built using lobste.rs software".

This code is forked from [journalduhacker.net](https://www.journalduhacker.net) (code [available here](https://gitlab.com/journalduhacker/journalduhacker)). Journalduhacker, in turn, is a fork of [lobste.rs](https://www.lobste.rs) (code [available here](https://github.com/lobsters/lobsters)).

## License

Licensed under the AGPLv3 license. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/gambe-ro/lobsters/blob/develop/LICENSE) for the full license.

## Contributing

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/gambe-ro/lobsters/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md)
file.

## Setup

> Make sure you have Docker daemon running. Then:

Reviewer: magari metti un generico "Install Docker" con link al loro getting started

* If needed, create a new database configuration at `/config/database.yml`. Follow the template `/config/database.template.yml`.

* Define the following environment variables: `MYSQL_USER`, `MYSQL_PASSWORD`, `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD` and `MYSQL_DATABASE`. 

* Run `docker-run.sh`:
  ```bash
  $ ./docker-run.sh
  ```
  This command will provision two containers: one for the Ruby on Rails server and one for the MariaDB database.

* You should now be able to view the website at `172.20.0.2:3000` (you can change this address from the `docker-compose.yml` file). Moreover, you should be able to login with the `test` account (password is `test`).

## Additional setup steps

* Define your site's name and default domain, which are used in various places, in a `config/initializers/production.rb` or similar file:
  ```ruby
  class << Rails.application
    def domain
      "example.com"
    end
  
    def name
      "Example News"
    end
  end
  
  Rails.application.routes.default_url_options[:host] = Rails.application.domain
  ```

* Put your site's custom CSS in `app/assets/stylesheets/local`.

* In production, set up crontab or another scheduler to run regular jobs:
  ```bash

>   */20 * * * * cd /path/to/journalduhacker && env RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake ts:index > /dev/null

Reviewer: ancora il vecchio path

  ```
## Moderation

On-site tasks are carried out directly on the website. Console tasks are carried out through the Ruby on Rails console in production.
To start the Rails console: `rails c`. To start the Rails console and rollback on exit: `rails c --sandbox`.

> Note: when moderating you should provide a moderation reason.

Reviewer: questa nota messa così è un po' volante. Io la toglierei, nel senso che l'interfaccia penso ti forzi a farlo

### On-site tasks

#### Edit/Delete a story

> Click the 'edit' button under the story title. You can:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By clicking the 'edit' button under the story title you can:
```
Collegerei le due frasi così.
Mi sembra più chiaro.

* Edit the title
* Add or remove tags
* Edit the body text
* Merge the story into another

#### Delete a comment

Click the 'delete' button next to it.

#### Attach a moderation note to a user

Inside a user profile page, you can write moderation notes for that particular user. Only moderators can see them.

#### Disable invites for a user

Inside a user profile page, click the 'Disable Invites' button at the bottom.
You will be able to re-enable invites by clicking on 'Enable Invites'.

#### Ban a user

Inside a user profile page, click the 'Ban' button at the bottom. You must provide a reason.
You will be able to unban the user by clicking on 'Unban'.

#### Read the latest 10 moderation notes and moderations applied to a user

You can see them inside a user profile page. To see more than 10, you need to use the console.

#### Manage hats requests

Go to /hats/requests.

### Console tasks

A typical command to add a resource is:
```ruby
name_of_resource.create(attribute1: value1, attribute2: value2, ...)
```

To edit a resource first assign it to a variable, edit it and then save:
```ruby
story = Story.find_by(short_id: story_short_id)
story.attribute = new_attribute_value

> story.save

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
story.save()
```
In ruby sintatticamente è corretto ma per coerenza con story.delete() scritto sotto e per leggibilità metterei le parentesi tonde.
